and the word of the Lord came to me son
and the word of the Lord came to me son of man pose a riddle and speak a parable
of man pose a riddle and speak a parable
of man pose a riddle and speak a parable to the house of Israel and say thus says
to the house of Israel and say thus says
to the house of Israel and say thus says the Lord God a great Eagle with large
the Lord God a great Eagle with large
the Lord God a great Eagle with large wings and long pinions full of feathers
wings and long pinions full of feathers
wings and long pinions full of feathers of various colors came to Lebanon and
of various colors came to Lebanon and
of various colors came to Lebanon and took from the cedar the highest branch
took from the cedar the highest branch
took from the cedar the highest branch he cropped off its top most young twig
he cropped off its top most young twig
he cropped off its top most young twig and carried it to a land of trade he set
and carried it to a land of trade he set
and carried it to a land of trade he set it in a city of merchants then he took
it in a city of merchants then he took
it in a city of merchants then he took some of the seed of the land and planted
some of the seed of the land and planted
some of the seed of the land and planted it in a fertile field he placed it by
it in a fertile field he placed it by
it in a fertile field he placed it by abundant waters and set it like a willow
abundant waters and set it like a willow
abundant waters and set it like a willow tree and it grew and became a spreading
tree and it grew and became a spreading
tree and it grew and became a spreading vine of low stature its branches turned
vine of low stature its branches turned
vine of low stature its branches turned toward him but its roots were under it
toward him but its roots were under it
toward him but its roots were under it so it became a vine brought forth
so it became a vine brought forth
so it became a vine brought forth branches and put forth shoes but there
branches and put forth shoes but there
branches and put forth shoes but there was another great Eagle with large wings
was another great Eagle with large wings
was another great Eagle with large wings and many feathers and behold this vine
and many feathers and behold this vine
and many feathers and behold this vine bent its roots toward him and stretched
bent its roots toward him and stretched
bent its roots toward him and stretched its branches toward him from the garden
its branches toward him from the garden
its branches toward him from the garden terrace where it had been planted that
terrace where it had been planted that
terrace where it had been planted that he might water it it was planted in good
he might water it it was planted in good
he might water it it was planted in good soil by many waters to bring forth
soil by many waters to bring forth
soil by many waters to bring forth branches bear fruit and become a
branches bear fruit and become a
branches bear fruit and become a majestic vine say thus says the Lord God
majestic vine say thus says the Lord God
majestic vine say thus says the Lord God will it thrive
will it thrive
will it thrive will he not pull up its roots cut off
will he not pull up its roots cut off
will he not pull up its roots cut off its fruit and leave it to wither all of
its fruit and leave it to wither all of
its fruit and leave it to wither all of its spring leaves will wither and no
its spring leaves will wither and no
its spring leaves will wither and no great power or many people will be
great power or many people will be
great power or many people will be needed to pluck it up by its roots
needed to pluck it up by its roots
needed to pluck it up by its roots behold it is planted will it thrive will
behold it is planted will it thrive will
behold it is planted will it thrive will it not utterly wither when the east wind
it not utterly wither when the east wind
it not utterly wither when the east wind touches it it will wither in the garden
touches it it will wither in the garden
touches it it will wither in the garden terrace where it grew say now to the
terrace where it grew say now to the
terrace where it grew say now to the rebellious house do you not know what
rebellious house do you not know what
rebellious house do you not know what these things mean
these things mean
these things mean tell them indeed the king of Babylon
tell them indeed the king of Babylon
tell them indeed the king of Babylon went to Jerusalem and took its king and
went to Jerusalem and took its king and
went to Jerusalem and took its king and princes and led them with him to Babel
princes and led them with him to Babel
princes and led them with him to Babel and he took the Kings offspring made a
and he took the Kings offspring made a
and he took the Kings offspring made a covenant with him and put him under oath
covenant with him and put him under oath
covenant with him and put him under oath he also took away the mighty of the land
he also took away the mighty of the land
he also took away the mighty of the land that the kingdom might be brought low
that the kingdom might be brought low
that the kingdom might be brought low and not lift itself up but that by
and not lift itself up but that by
and not lift itself up but that by keeping his covenant it might stand but
keeping his covenant it might stand but
keeping his covenant it might stand but he rebelled against him by sending his
he rebelled against him by sending his
he rebelled against him by sending his ambassadors to Egypt that they might
ambassadors to Egypt that they might
ambassadors to Egypt that they might give him horses and many people will he
give him horses and many people will he
give him horses and many people will he prosper will he who does such things
prosper will he who does such things
prosper will he who does such things escape can he break a covenant and still
escape can he break a covenant and still
escape can he break a covenant and still be delivered as I live says the Lord God
be delivered as I live says the Lord God
be delivered as I live says the Lord God surely in the place where the king
surely in the place where the king
surely in the place where the king dwells who made him king whose oath he
dwells who made him king whose oath he
dwells who made him king whose oath he despised and whose covenant he broke
despised and whose covenant he broke
despised and whose covenant he broke with him in the midst of Babylon he
with him in the midst of Babylon he
with him in the midst of Babylon he shall die nor will ferrel with his
shall die nor will ferrel with his
shall die nor will ferrel with his mighty army and great company do
mighty army and great company do
mighty army and great company do anything in the war when they heap up a
anything in the war when they heap up a
anything in the war when they heap up a siege mount and build a wall to cut off
siege mount and build a wall to cut off
siege mount and build a wall to cut off many persons since he despised the oath
many persons since he despised the oath
many persons since he despised the oath by breaking the Covenant and in fact
by breaking the Covenant and in fact
by breaking the Covenant and in fact gave his hand and still did all these
gave his hand and still did all these
gave his hand and still did all these things he shall not escape
things he shall not escape
things he shall not escape therefore thus says the Lord God as I
therefore thus says the Lord God as I
therefore thus says the Lord God as I live
live
live surely my oath which he despised and my
surely my oath which he despised and my
surely my oath which he despised and my covenant which he broke I will
covenant which he broke I will
covenant which he broke I will recompense on his own head I will spread
recompense on his own head I will spread
recompense on his own head I will spread my net over him and he shall be taken in
my net over him and he shall be taken in
my net over him and he shall be taken in my snare I will bring him to Babylon and
my snare I will bring him to Babylon and
my snare I will bring him to Babylon and try him there for the treason which he
try him there for the treason which he
try him there for the treason which he committed against me all his fugitives
committed against me all his fugitives
committed against me all his fugitives with all his troops shall fall by the
with all his troops shall fall by the
with all his troops shall fall by the sword and those who remain shall be
sword and those who remain shall be
sword and those who remain shall be scattered to every wind and you shall
scattered to every wind and you shall
scattered to every wind and you shall know that I the LORD have spoken thus
know that I the LORD have spoken thus
know that I the LORD have spoken thus says the Lord God I will also take one
says the Lord God I will also take one
says the Lord God I will also take one of the highest branches of the high
of the highest branches of the high
of the highest branches of the high cedar and set it out I will crop off
cedar and set it out I will crop off
cedar and set it out I will crop off from the top most of its young twigs a
from the top most of its young twigs a
from the top most of its young twigs a tender one and will plant it on a high
tender one and will plant it on a high
tender one and will plant it on a high and prominent mountain on the mountain
and prominent mountain on the mountain
and prominent mountain on the mountain height of Israel I will plant it and it
height of Israel I will plant it and it
height of Israel I will plant it and it will bring forth boughs and bear fruit
will bring forth boughs and bear fruit
will bring forth boughs and bear fruit and be a majestic cedar under it will
and be a majestic cedar under it will
and be a majestic cedar under it will draw birds of every sort in the shadow
draw birds of every sort in the shadow
draw birds of every sort in the shadow of its branches they will dwell and all
of its branches they will dwell and all
of its branches they will dwell and all the trees of the field shall know that I
the trees of the field shall know that I
the trees of the field shall know that I the LORD have brought down the high tree
the LORD have brought down the high tree
the LORD have brought down the high tree and exalted the low tree dried up the
and exalted the low tree dried up the
and exalted the low tree dried up the green tree and made the dry tree
green tree and made the dry tree
green tree and made the dry tree flourish I the LORD have spoken and have
flourish I the LORD have spoken and have
flourish I the LORD have spoken and have done it
done it
done it you